## Gated DoD Review
### Summary
In order to provide Engineering with a process that protects the product from unexpected bugs (as much as is possible) and to promote a flexible, developer-driven testing paradigm, we propose the following gated definition of done review process.

### Gate 1: The Product Owner
#### Responsibilities
* Organizes major features into epics.
* Ensures each epic has one or more Acceptance and/or Comprehensive level tests, with buy-off from Tech Leads.
* Creates stories for Acceptance and Comprehensive tests.
* Requires Acceptance and Comprehensive tests to be completed to consider the epic (feature) to be shippable.

#### Deliverables
* Acceptance test stories
* Comprehensive test stories

### Gate 2: The Team and Product Owner During Planning
#### Responsibilities
* Decides which BVT and Basic level tests need to be included for each story or group of stories. Add them to the definition of done for each story (so that it is recorded).
* While the number of unit tests is variable, the team should commit to 100% code coverage for new, and where possible old, code.
* Includes this additional work in estimates.
* Records in the story possible areas of impact that could/should be tested.

#### Deliverables
* Augmented stories that include:
  * Refined definition of done with tailored testing requirements
  * Potentially impacted areas

### Gate 3: The Team and Product Owner During Review
**The Informal Code Review**
#### Responsibilities
* Team members review each other's work on a regular basis, also paying close attention to the number of new tests and their pass/fail status.
* Teams should work toward a completed definition of done.
* The team member responsible for the burden of work creates a WIP Merge Request (using the "WIP:" tag in GitLab) that records the definition of done and how it has been achieved (see Merge Request DoD template below).
* Reviews areas of impact and report them to SIT team (see sample Area of Impact report below).
* Validates automation passes
* Product Owner records definition of done completion, or lack thereof, in Merge Request and signs-off on it.

#### Deliverables
* Completed Story
* Completed Tests
* Completed D.o.D.
* Passing Automation
* WIP Merge Request
* Area of Impact report

### Gate 4: The Tech Lead (Architect?) During Review
**The Formal Code Review**
#### Responsibilities
* Ensures completeness of code changes and tests.
* Reviews Areas of Impact report.
* Validates definition of done completion.
* Validates automation passes.
* Validates best practices are followed.
* Returns to team if incomplete, otherwise records authorization (see Authorization Template below)
* Removes WIP from title of Merge Request
* Assigns Merge Request to Release Team

#### Deliverables
* Completed authorization from Tech Lead
* Merge Request assigned to Release Team

### Gate 5: The Release Team
#### Responsibilities
* Validates 100% definition of done completion.
* Validates all automation passes.
* Validates sign-off from Product Owner and Tech Lead.
* Performs the Merge.
* Records the story in the Release Notes.

#### Deliverables
* Completed story merged into the appropriate branch
* Updated Release Notes
